Add Advanced AWS Networking, Part 2 (#2714)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/advanced-aws-networking-part-2/index.md

---
title: "Advanced AWS Networking, Part 2"

# The date represents the post's publish date,
# and by default corresponds with the date this file was generated.
# Posts with future dates are visible in development,
# but excluded from production builds.
# Use the time and timezone-offset portions of of this value
# to schedule posts for publishing later.

> date: 2023-04-19

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-04-20
```

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary
# (one or two sentences) of the content of the post,
# which is useful for targeting search results or social-media previews.
# This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
# Max length is 160 characters.
meta_desc: Learn how to create a hub-and-spoke architecture in AWS in Python with Pulumi.

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect ratio
# has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required.
# The values in this list correspond with the `id` properties
# of the team member files at /data/team/team.
# Create a file for yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - josh-kodroff
    - andy-taylor
    - jose-juhala

# At least one tag is required.
# Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - aws
    - networking
    - hub-and-spoke
    - python

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/blob/master/BLOGGING.md.
# for additional details,
# and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> In this blog series you will learn how to create a hub-and-spoke network architecture in AWS with centralized egress and traffic inspection. In this second installment, we'll show you how to create spoke VPCs to run your workloads, verify centralized egress is working, and then add centralized traffic inspection using Pulumi, the infrastructure as code tool that enables you to manage infrastructure with real programming languages!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog series, you will learn how to create a hub-and-spoke network architecture in AWS with centralized egress and traffic inspection. In this second installment, we'll show you how to create spoke VPCs to run your workloads, verify centralized egress is working, and then add centralized traffic inspection using Pulumi, the infrastructure as code tool that enables you to manage infrastructure with real programming languages!
```

<!--more-->

## Introduction

> In [AWS Advanced Networking Part 1](https://pulumi.com/blog/advanced-aws-networking-part-1/):

Reviewer 3: It feels like this sentence needs something more, like a "you" or "we" at the end. I'd prefer "you", but that will require rewording a couple of the items.

Author: I'm gonna give this a go and see if I can make it more consistent.

Author: Done.

1. Discussed the benefits of a hub-and-spoke network architecture with centralized egress.
1. Created the shared [AWS Transit Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/transit-gateway/) resources to be shared among our spoke VPCs and inspection VPC.
1. Defined our inspection VPC as a Pulumi [component resource](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components/).

> Now, to finish the architecture, we will need to:

Reviewer 3: Just a general note here to try to use "you" (second person) as much as possible (per the Slack conversation about emulating DO's style guidelines) instead of first-person "we"

1. Create a spoke VPC as a Pulumi component resource.
1. Test the network architecture by verifying that centralized egress is working.
1. Add traffic inspection with [AWS Network Firewall](https://aws.amazon.com/network-firewall/).

{{% notes type="info" %}}
In subsequent sections we will be showing code samples. Because this is a more advanced Pulumi program, we will be focusing on the most important parts of the architecture rather than covering every single line in the codebase. The complete code for this project is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-py-hub-and-spoke-network), which is a great place to go for full context.
{{% /notes %}}

## Spoke VPC

> Like your inspection VPC, we will implement the spoke VPC as a Pulumi component resource. Component resources allow you to logically group resources to form reusable components. Because your network will contain multiple spoke VPCs (at least 2, possibly more), and the spoke VPC will contain both the basic VPC as well as connectivity to Transit Gateway, the spoke VPC is a natural fit for a component resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like your inspection VPC, we will implement the spoke VPC as a Pulumi component resource. Component resources allow you to logically group resources to form reusable components. Because your network will contain multiple spoke VPCs (at least 2, possibly more), and the spoke VPC will contain both the basic VPC and connectivity to Transit Gateway, the spoke VPC is a natural fit for a component resource.
```

First, add a file `spoke.py` to your Pulumi program. In Python, it's good practice to put each component resource along with its associated arguments class in a separate file from your main program as it makes for intuitive code organization:

```python
@dataclass
class SpokeVpcArgs:
    vpc_cidr_block: str
    tgw_id: pulumi.Input[str]
    tgw_route_table_id: pulumi.Input[str]

class SpokeVpc(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    def __init__(self, name: str, args: SpokeVpcArgs, opts: pulumi.ResourceOptions = None) -> None:
        super().__init__("awsAdvancedNetworking:index:SpokeVpc", name, None, opts)
```

> Then, create a VPC with 2 sets of subnets, both isolated (that is, with no pathway to the internet). One set of subnets will hold our spoke VPC workloads, and the other will hold our Transit Gateway attachment. We enable DNS hostnames and support so that we can later use VPC endpoints to enable [AWS Systems Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/index.html) access to verify that centralized egress is working as expected without requiring direct host access via SSH:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, create a VPC with two sets of subnets, both isolated (with no pathway to the internet). One set of subnets will hold our spoke VPC workloads, and the other will hold our Transit Gateway attachment. We enable DNS hostnames and support so that we can later use VPC endpoints to enable [AWS Systems Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/index.html) access to verify that centralized egress is working as expected without requiring direct host access via SSH:
```

            awsx.ec2.SubnetSpecArgs(
                name="private",
                cidr_mask=28,
                type=awsx.ec2.SubnetType.ISOLATED,
            ),
            awsx.ec2.SubnetSpecArgs(
                name="tgw",
                cidr_mask=28,
                type=awsx.ec2.SubnetType.ISOLATED,
            ),
        ],
        nat_gateways=awsx.ec2.NatGatewayConfigurationArgs(
            strategy=awsx.ec2.NatGatewayStrategy.NONE,
        ),
        enable_dns_hostnames=True,
        enable_dns_support=True,
    )
)
```

Then, attach the Transit Gateway to the appropriate subnets:

```python
self.tgw_attachment = aws.ec2transitgateway.VpcAttachment(
    f"{name}-tgw-vpc-attachment",
    aws.ec2transitgateway.VpcAttachmentArgs(
        transit_gateway_id=args.tgw_id,
        subnet_ids=tgw_subnets.apply(lambda x: x.ids),
        vpc_id=self.vpc.vpc_id,
        transit_gateway_default_route_table_association=False,
        transit_gateway_default_route_table_propagation=False,
        tags={
            "Name": f"{name}",
        },
    ),
    pulumi.ResourceOptions(
        delete_before_replace=True,
        depends_on=[self.vpc],
        parent=self,
    )
)
```

> Add [VPC endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html) to allow Systems Manager access so that you can open an SSH connection from the AWS console without having to allow network access to the hosts. Because Pulumi uses real programming languages, you can use a plain old Python `for` loop to create these resources with less lines of code using familiar syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add [VPC endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html) to allow Systems Manager access to open an SSH connection from the AWS console without having to allow network access to the hosts. Because Pulumi uses real programming languages, you can use a Python `for` loop to create these resources with fewer lines of code using familiar syntax:
```

            destination_cidr_block="0.0.0.0/0",
            transit_gateway_id=self._args.tgw_id,
        ),
        pulumi.ResourceOptions(
            depends_on=[self.tgw_attachment],
            parent=self,
        ),
    )
```

Finally, add some outputs for the component. You'll use these to place workloads in the proper subnets:

```python
self.register_outputs({
    "vpc": self.vpc,
    "workload_subnet_ids": self.workload_subnet_ids
})
```

You can instantiate a spoke VPC like the following in `__main__.py`:

```python
spoke1_vpc = SpokeVpc(
    "spoke1",
    SpokeVpcArgs(
        vpc_cidr_block="10.0.0.0/16",
        tgw_id=tgw.id,
        tgw_route_table_id=spoke_tgw_route_table.id,
    ),
)
```

Subsequent spoke VPCs should use a separate CIDR block:

```python
spoke2_vpc = SpokeVpc(
    "spoke2",
    SpokeVpcArgs(
        vpc_cidr_block="10.1.0.0/16",
        tgw_id=tgw.id,
        tgw_route_table_id=spoke_tgw_route_table.id,
    ),
)
```

Now that you have your spoke VPCs added, it's time to test that the architecture is working as expected. To do this, we'll create a sample workload and deploy it to one of our spoke VPCs.

## Creating a Sample Spoke VPC Workload

> To test that internet traffic from your spoke VPC is going over the inspection VPC's NAT gateway, you'll add a workload (i.e., an EC2 instance running Amazon Linux) to your spoke VPC and verify that its public IP is that of the Elastic IP attached to the NAT gateway in the inspection VPC. The spoke VPC workload, like the spoke VPC itself, is a natural fit for a Pulumi component resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test that internet traffic from your spoke VPC is going over the inspection VPC's NAT gateway, you'll add a workload (i.e., an EC2 instance running Amazon Linux) to your spoke VPC and verify that its public IP is that of the Elastic IP attached to the NAT gateway in the inspection VPC. Like the spoke VPC workload, the spoke VPC itself is a natural fit for a Pulumi component resource.
```

            vpc_endpoint_id=subnet_attachments[0]["endpoint_id"],
        ),
        pulumi.ResourceOptions(
            parent=self,
        ),
    )
```

In the inspection VPC subnets with the Transit Gateway attachment, you'll need to route all traffic bound for the internet through AWS Network Firewall. Previously, these routes went directly to the NAT gateway:

```python
for subnet_id in tgw_subnet_ids:
    # ...

    aws.ec2.Route(
        f"{self.name}-{subnet_id}-to-firewall",
        aws.ec2.RouteArgs(
            route_table_id=route_table.id,
            destination_cidr_block="0.0.0.0/0",
            vpc_endpoint_id=subnet_attachments[0]["endpoint_id"],
        ),
        pulumi.ResourceOptions(
            parent=self,
        ),
    )
```

In order to test that our firewall rules are in effect, connect to one of your spoke EC2 instances like before. Traffic to `amazon.com` should be allowed:

![Screenshot of a cURL command to amazon.com succeeding](./5-amazon-traffic-allowed.png)

But traffic to other domains should be blocked:

![Screenshot of a cURL command to google.com being blocked by AWS Network Firewall](./6-non-amazon-traffic-blocked.png)

## Conclusion

> The hub-and-spoke architecture gives us a number of key advantages when our organization has multiple VPCs: cost savings via centralized egress, and the ability to provide traffic inspection and apply network policies in a single place. While this architecture can be difficult to implement due to the number of resources needed, Pulumi's approach of enabling practitioners to use real programming languages makes it easier than ever to define complex, real-world infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The hub-and-spoke architecture gives us several key advantages when our organization has multiple VPCs: cost savings via centralized egress and the ability to provide traffic inspection and apply network policies in a single place. While this architecture can be difficult to implement due to the resources needed, Pulumi's approach of enabling practitioners to use real programming languages makes it easier to define complex, real-world infrastructure.
```
